h1. DC Crime Data

A package with DC's crime data from 2006-01-01 through 2012-07-17.

h2. About the data

h3. Data history

Last updated:  2012-07-17
Earliest data: 2006-01-01

h3. Data dictionary

You can find crime definitions "here":crime_data_definitions.

I include a data dictionary in the form of a csv file. This will need to be updated because it currently mixes variables definitions and variable value definitions.

h4. Cleaning the data

* XBLOCK coordinates
** 105 XBLOCK coordinates from Ward 5 have XBLOCK coordinates that are two orders of magnitude off.
*** @crime_data$XBLOCK[crime_data$XBLOCK > 40000000] <- crime_data$XBLOCK[crime_data$XBLOCK > 40000000] / 100@
** 49 XBLOCK coordinates appear to be an order of magnitude too low (39k-40k)
*** @crime_data$XBLOCK[crime_data$XBLOCK > 39000 & crime_data$XBLOCK < 41000] <- crime_data$XBLOCK[crime_data$XBLOCK > 39000 & crime_data$XBLOCK < 41000] * 10@
* YBLOCK coordinates
** 2 YBLOCK coordinates are an order of magnitude too high
*** 1423925.0 is divided by 10
*** 1742951.8 is divided by 10 and the first two digits are transposed
** Some YBLOCK coordinates are an order of magnitude too low (12000-15000)
* CCN
** 79 CCN values are missing. No other variables have any missing values.

h4. Map coordinates

Location is approximated to the center of the street block. Values are in the Maryland State Plane meters NAD 83 map projection.

h4. Sexual assault disclaimer

Sexual assualt data is not available before 2009.

h2. Setup

Setup instructions to get the data or update the package.

h3. Installation instructions

# Download from github:
## @git clone git://github.com/eshilts/dc_crime_data.git@
# Build and install
bq. cd dc_crime_data
bin/build.sh
R CMD INSTALL dccrimedata_0.1.tar.gz # version number may be off
# Load and use
bq. library(dccrimedata) 
crime_data <- load_crime_data_by_ward()

h3. Updating crime data

# Visit the "DC crime data search":crime_data_search page
# Select Other Geographic Area or Point
# Select _Wards_ from the drop down box
# Select each ward in turn (1 - 8)
# Click _Other_ option button
# Set From: date to 01/01/2006 (earliest date available)
# Click the _Search_ button
# Click the red _Download Crime Data_ link
# Click the red _Check all_ link
# Click the _Get Data_ button
# Save the resulting file as wardX.csv in the data directory.

[crime_data_search]http://crimemap.dc.gov/CrimeMapSearch.aspx
[crime_data_definitions]http://crimemap.dc.gov/CrimeDefinitions.aspx
